# Use Case Description

Access by non-healthcare professional as data controller to specific subset of data with a known URI (e.g. lab test results of one specific blood sampling, like glucose test) for 24h, to be refined with dynamic values. Data subset defined from the patient's policy side.

For that:
- The user has a [policy](policy-16.ttl) that allows a subset of her health data to be read by a non-healthcare professional for 24h.
- The non-healthcare professional issues a [request](request-16.ttl) to read a subset of health data for 24h with consent as legal basis.
- A [State of the world](sotw-16.ttl) is generated specifying the current time and updating the "externalSource" value from the refinement.

TODO: SOTW & The expected agreement , i.e., generated by matching policy and request, should also be part of this benchmark.

## Use Case Requirements:

- N/A - non applicable requirements
- TODO - we still need to think about how to integrate that into an ODRL policy
- TODO-EHDS - required to assess whether EHDS is applicable, still needs to be incorporated 

### Subject/holder policy

- Data subject: <https://example.org/user16>
- Data/Personal data: <https://example.org/lab-test-results>
- Processing operation: `odrl:read`
- Purpose: `dpv:NonCommercialPurpose` or `dpv:RequestedServiceProvision` or `sector-health:ResourceManagement` or `ex:SecondOpinion`
- Pseudo/Anonymisation as a duty: N/A
- Recipient: <https://example.org/NonHealthcareProfessional>
- Duration: 24h
- Frequency: N/A
- Retrospective/prospective data: Retrospective -- TODO

### Request

- Data controller: <https://example.org/nonHealthcareProfessional>
- Data subject (type): <https://example.org/user16>
- Data/Personal data: <https://example.org/lab-test-results>
- Personal electronic health data: TODO-EHDS
- Non-personal electronic health data: TODO-EHDS
- Processing operation: : `odrl:read`
- Purpose: `dpv:NonCommercialPurpose` or `dpv:RequestedServiceProvision` or `sector-health:ResourceManagement` or `ex:SecondOpinion`

***- Primary/Secondary use: N/A
- Legal basis: `eu-gdpr:A9-2-a`
- Pseudo/Anonymisation as a duty: N/A
- Recipient: N/A # <https://example.org/NonHealthcareProfessional>

***- Data source: N/A
- Duration: 24h
- Frequency: N/A
- Events/Activities: N/A

## Open Issues

1. Personal data: e.g. lab test results of one specific blood sampling. I have done the use case for blood glucose, allowing the mapping to LOINC "Glucose test" concept (LOINC 2345-7).

2. Purpose: I would like a purpose like SecondOpinion in sector-health, or a non-official second opinion, like on this use case.

4. Express duration in the descriptions just like '24h'?

6. Not primary nor secondary use, how should we define it?

7. Data source N/A? Shouldn't it also be EHR?

8. How does the engine know that it means P24H after the event?
```
odrl:leftOperand odrl:dateTime ;
odrl:operator odrl:lteq ;
odrl:rightOperand "P24H"^^xsd:duration ;
odrl:rightOperandReference ex:accessToNonHCPEvent
```
