# Use Case Description

Read access by FAQIR Aggregator over Patient Sensor slice. 

For that:
- The user has a [policy](policy-23.ttl) that allows his Sensor slice to be read by FAQIR Aggregator ID.
- FAQIR Aggregator ID issues a [request](request-23.ttl) to read the patient's Sensor slice of the pod without time limit and with consent as legal basis.

TODO: SOTW & The expected agreement , i.e., generated by matching policy and request, should also be part of this benchmark.

## Use Case Requirements:

- N/A - non applicable requirements
- TODO - we still need to think about how to integrate that into an ODRL policy
- TODO-EHDS - required to assess whether EHDS is applicable, still needs to be incorporated 

### Subject/holder policy

- Data subject: <https://example.org/patient>
- Data/Personal data: <https://faqir.org/patientPod/sensor/slice>
- Processing operation: `odrl:read`
- Purpose: `dpv:NonCommercialResearch` or `sector-health:ResourceManagement` or `dpv:ServiceProvision`

***- Pseudo/Anonymisation as a duty: N/A # Not initially, it will depend on who will have access to the aggregation afterwards
- Recipient: N/A
- Duration: N/A
- Frequency: N/A
- Retrospective/prospective data: N/A

### Request

***- Data controller: <https://faqir.org/>
- Data subject (type): <https://example.org/patient>
- Data/Personal data: <https://faqir.org/patientPod/sensor/slice>
- Personal electronic health data: TODO-EHDS
- Non-personal electronic health data: TODO-EHDS
- Processing operation: `odrl:read`
- Purpose: `dpv:NonCommercialResearch` or `sector-health:ResourceManagement` or `dpv:ServiceProvision`
- Primary/Secondary use: N/A
- Legal basis: `eu-gdpr:A9-2-a`

***- Pseudo/Anonymisation as a duty: N/A # Not initially, it will depend on who will have access to the aggregation afterwards
- Recipient: N/A

***- Data source: N/A # or FAQIR 
- Duration: N/A
- Frequency: N/A
- Events/Activities: N/A

## Issues
### Open Issues

1. Is Data Source not applicable or is it FAQIR?

2. Pseudo/Anonymisation depends on who will have access to the aggregated data, so it is not applicable on this policy, which only refers to the in-house service. Is this interpretation correct?

3. The purpose of the Aggregator is to aggregate the patient's slice, I assume. `dpv:Aggregate` is an action or processing, but not a purpose. Is `dpv:ServiceProvision` enough to represent the Aggregator's purpose?

4. Is it FAQIR the Data Controller? (Current approach)

Is it the patient?

Is it the aggregator?

Is there None?

### Closed Issues

NONE