# Use Case Description

Access by physician as data controller to specific subset of data (e.g. historical weight measurements recorded by HCP).

For that:
- The patient has a policy that allows a subset of her health data to be read for primary care.
- The physician issues a request to read a subset of health data for primary care with consent as legal basis.

TODO: The expected agreement , i.e., generated by matching policy and request, should also be part of this benchmark.

## Use Case Requirements:

- N/A - non applicable requirements
- TODO - we still need to think about how to integrate that into an ODRL policy
- TODO-EHDS - required to assess whether EHDS is applicable, still needs to be incorporated 

### Subject/holder policy

- Data subject: <https://example.org/patient>
- Data/Personal data: <https://example.org/weight>
- Processing operation: `odrl:read`
- Purpose: `sector-health:PrimaryCareManagement`
- Pseudo/Anonymisation as a duty: N/A
- Recipient: N/A
- Duration: N/A
- Frequency: N/A
- Retrospective/prospective data: Retrospective -- TODO

### Request

- Data controller: <https://example.org/physician>
- Data subject (type): <https://example.org/patient>
- Data/Personal data: <https://example.org/weight> or <https://example.org/weight-by-hcp>
- Personal electronic health data: TODO-EHDS
- Non-personal electronic health data: TODO-EHDS
- Processing operation: : `odrl:read`
- Purpose: `sector-health:PrimaryCareManagement`
- Primary/Secondary use: Primary -- still needs to be expressed in the policy though
- Legal basis: `eu-gdpr:A9-2-a`
- Pseudo/Anonymisation as a duty: N/A
- Recipient: N/A
- Data source: N/A
- Duration: N/A
- Frequency: N/A
- Events/Activities: N/A

## Open Issues

1. As there are multiple techniques to acces to a subset of data, I have created 4 subsets: know URI [UC-02-URI](./uc-02/uc-02-URI/), refined URI [UC-02-refinedURI](./uc-02/uc-02-refinedURI/), SPARQL query [UC-02-SPARQL](./uc-02/uc-02-SPARQL/) and SHACL validation [UC-02-SHACL](./uc-02/uc-02-SHACL/). The technique is specified in the id as follows:
- Policy `ex:ucXX-<tech>-p-<data_cat>-<purpose>-<data_controller>-<scope>`	
- Request `ex:ucXX-<tech>-r-<data_cat>-<purpose>-<data_controller>-<scope>-<assignee>`

The alternative would be to create independent use cases.

2. [Description-02-refinedURI](./uc-02/uc-02-refinedURI/description-02-refinedURI.md): Weight URI refined on source, as it is interpreted as an assetCollection:

    ```
    odrl:target [
            odrl:source ex:weight ; #rdf:value
            odrl:refinement [
                odrl:leftOperand dpv-odrl:DataControllerDataSource ;
                odrl:operator odrl:eq ;
                odrl:rightOperand ehds:HealthcareProvider ]] ;
    ```

The alternative is to refine rdf:value, but it applies to actions.

3. [Description-02-SHACL](./uc-02/uc-02-refinedURI/description-02-SHACL.md): SHACL validation is applied on the simple policy and request. Should it be a separate file to avoid code repetition by importing and linking it?
Right now it's written on both policy and request. 